## Chapter 2.1 — Agent ecosystem in India [WIP]

One of my first encounters with the "agent" service is when I had to get my learning license. It was a well integrated system, no matter where you go, there is a driving school along with these services attached. My dad told me that we could just pay some nominal fees (definitely not nominal, they ask for double than what is required) and get the license handed before hitting the driving school. Which frankly I did not mind at the time since I was unsure of why we needed the agent in the first place, my first thought was probably because it was complex?
But then, I was forced to confront my ignorance.

 I remember checking the application number I got from the agent out of curiosity, to check the complexity of the application, I realized they had misgendered me, the address was half-assed and it was already submitted. I felt weirdly angry and a bit annoyed. So you are telling me that you will charge a good chunk of fees, have everything input in the laziest way possible and call it a day?

 I immediately called up the agent and was met with "Chalta hai, problem nahi hogi" [_everything goes, it won't be a problem_]. As someone who was forced to be hyper vigilant about details put in a document, be it the CBSE board registration form I had to fill in 9th grade or even filling out roll numbers on my sheet without failing to quadruple check the digits, it was infuriating. I immediately decided to just fill the LL form on my own and told the agent to cancel his side of the application.

 The essence about this incident got brought up recently in my life, during the purchase of a new car, my family told the dealer to have the FasTag stuck on the car with the bank account linked if possible. I know this is not even a tedious process, but somehow I realized that the knowledge and information ignorance leads to this situation of learned helplessness, where the  agent ecosystem thrives on. 
 After we got the car, I realized that the FasTag was not connected or linked to VIN (chassis no) which is how the dealers give the car out with a temporary link. I got grilled at home for quite a while for not getting the FasTag linked. I called up the bank who had the FasTag issued and said they found no record what so ever for the VIN nor the VRN. I had to end up contacting the dealer months later to get this through. Had this "convenience" been ignored at the time, I could have just went into my net banking portal and ordered the FasTag and end it at that, instead I had to sit and communicate with 2 people to only know the status of it and have it linked. 

 > Sulcus 2.1.1 
 >> Idea so evil, it should be buried, imagine if senior citizens who are not digitally literate become a target audience of a business model which thrives on making something as simple as a FasTag order from the netbanking portal as a service? 
 
 Digital literacy as a Service would thrive on people who do not have the means or in some cases, willingness to know the procedures to navigate the modern world. This is what scares me, abstraction in the wrong direction, where convenience starts to cost more than the mental effort to understand a process. 

> Sulcus 2.1.2 
 >> One observation that could be remotely related is the deep rooted pride within the Indian society with respect to delegation. A certain type of pride exists in having services at disposal, somewhere along the lines where the richie riches used to utilize this particular ecosystem, it somehow creeped deeper into a lot of the other strata of the society. Here I don't wish to delve into the lower strata of the society, but focus on the middle. Somehow whenever a small inconvenience comes up, the question always thrown is "Kon karega itna, log hai uske liye, kon piche padega"[_Who'll do the work, people exist for that, who'll bother to chase_]. I believe it does stem from the bureaucracy and the entire bribed based systems with how government works, but what about systems that aren't that complex? Why is the autonomy selective to self-sustenance and not self-sufficiency.
**The pride of the Indian society runs so deep that a person would rather stay unemployed preparing for something without a predictable outcome, complain about funds running out instead of trying to gain experience in any service/retail sector while also earning something (which is better than nothing!).**
---